there's been a lot of hand-wringing
about the state of YouTube just in the
last few days if you've been following
the state of YouTube for the last few
years there's an irony right now what
everyone's asking is why doesn't YouTube
have more censorship more censorship
more censorship please YouTube why there
are 16 year olds and 14 year olds
posting videos of themselves wearing
bikinis I'm sure there are male
youtubers also posting themselves in the
male equivalent of bikinis okay male and
female and this has caused storm of
controversy in examining what YouTube is
and what it should be
wasn't it just a few weeks ago that
YouTube was being you know demonized and
pilloried for for censoring too much if
you were saying no no no YouTube should
have had a less censorship it's just so
hard for for Jacqueline Glenn to earn a
living by getting high on hallucinogenic
drugs on camera and then monetizing that
and having advertisements while
obviously promoting to young people the
idea of of getting higher and illegal
loose and genetic drugs Wow that must be
really hard for Jacqueline Glen boy
YouTube boy that's just too much
censorship what what was the other
completely insincere controversy oh you
know sargon of akkad or oh some other
kind of softcore right-wing crypto
neo-nazis oh they don't have the freedom
to come on YouTube oh and there was the
other you you probably missed this babe
my girlfriend's just stuff camera there
was this controversy about YouTube
not quite blacklisting Flat Earth videos
and not quite blacklisting like
conspiracy theories about September 11th
videos but it's creating a new kind of
gray listing or soft black listings so
that they won't come up at the top of
search results if you're not searching
for that so people are searching for
what happened on September 11th the
first five results aren't insane
conspiracy theories
from the same people who probably do
believe that the earth is flat or
what-have-you
so there's been this sequence of
self-contradictory controversies people
were saying less censorship less
censorship less censorship and then when
it comes to human sexuality all of a
sudden it's more censorship well guys
I'm not just here to complain as per
usual that the audience are a bunch of
idiots I think that's that's a bit
implicit in the first two minutes of
this video yeah we got problems with the
audience you know what I'm actually here
to tell you what the solution is and the
solution is both more competition and
more complementary competition YouTube
should be divided into several different
companies stick with me for one minute
this hypothetical exercise will not take
very long what if you wanted to have a
website just like YouTube but that was
being marketed towards children aged 8
to 11
think about the precise type of
censorship you need the type of
advertisers you'd need to appeal to and
encourage toy advertisers children's
clothing food the types of food
applesauce popsicles you'd have a whole
website and of course an app that could
be on a smartphone or a tablet and it's
just like YouTube but everything is
aimed at the demographic age 8 to age 11
okay right now YouTube if you take this
idea and run with it you will make a lot
of money of course it shouldn't be
called YouTube but you can give it a new
name give it new coat of paint new
decorative elements but I'm saying the
underlying reality the website is
exactly the same but of course with way
more censorship just totally different
Terms of Service that content creators
sign up well you can't have any bikini
videos you can it's just content that
would be acceptable for that Adrian
here's the thing boys aged 8 to 11
actually do watch cartoons with quite a
fair bit of violence
hmm Superman punches people in the face
Batman kicks the Joker in the groin you
know whatever there's a certain
acceptable range of violent slapstick
behavior certain types of humor jokes so
you need another channel again a not
even other--all a whole new website just
like YouTube that's targeting children
ages 0 to age 8 so that a six year old
or a four year old can sit there with a
tablet or phone and watch that channel
and that would again have a totally
different set of terms and conditions
and definition of what could be a
political can and then on that channel
you can't even have rude jokes
you can't even probably have aggressive
shouting you could have super high
levels of censorship you can't even have
Superman punching someone in the face
you would have really really limited
just educational content maybe songs
like nursery rhymes hyper censored and
everything that gets uploaded gets
reviewed and then you have a website
that's safe for children aged 0 to 8
okay my own daughter still five so you
know I can relate all right
you know what doesn't make any sense
having the five year olds the eight year
olds and the eleven year olds on the
same platform that has adult content
that does indeed include nudity and
violence and what-have-you
there's no real reason why all those
things would be here on the same website
and the main reason why that has
happened is lack of competition all the
people are being kicked off of YouTube
do they go to Vimeo not really right now
there is no viable alternative to
YouTube and one of the ways YouTube
could actually continue to make more
money would be if they voluntarily broke
up their own monopolies if they divide
it into several separate companies
that's happened historically with some
oil companies once they want to get one
giant company inque
we had one company that controlled the
whole telephone system telecom market
broke up into several competing
companies probably it would be a good
idea even for YouTube if they either
created the semblance of separate
competing companies so complementary
competition have described four
different age groups or if they actually
divided they could have separate stocks
trading on the stock market and YouTube
for kids could compete with YouTube for
Joel's here's the subtle point I'm
coming to when YouTube was founded
before it was acquired by Google
Corporation and actually adhered to a
bunch of principles that were more like
Wikipedia so if you look at Wikipedia
attitude towards nudity Wikipedia
actually boldly proclaims that unlike
other dictionaries or other websites
they allow and encourage you to have
nudity where it's appropriate
so nudity explicit photographs of you
know suffering devastation of war
diseases things that might be disgusting
the Wikipedia actually always has
allowed that and still does allow it
just where appropriate so if you look up
an article on that type of theme you're
gonna see that type of imagery likewise
even though YouTube never wanted to be a
pornographic website when it was founded
or quite broad categories permitting
nudity and there was a significant
amount of unity so you could have
something like a medical exam and then
you could have nude bodies in the
medical exam and there were videos on
this channel that got huge numbers of
views under that pretense of one way or
another yeah so there always was
softcore pornography on YouTube if
anything I think there's less now than
in the early days of the website it says
part of them grow and Google now has two
very different ideas of what YouTube
should be or if there were three ideas I
already mentioned one of them the idea
of YouTube for kids right and one of the
ideas of YouTube is that YouTube is
actually going to compete with CNN and
NBC and the nightly news that it's going
to be just as respectable as the highest
level of television infotainment that
it's going to be a place where you come
it's where I come I watch my news on
YouTube I don't I don't use a
conventional tell about having for many
many many years right that's gonna be a
trusted source that isn't full of crazy
conspiracy theories and misinformation
and also isn't full of things like
bikini Tran videos right and then
there's another concept of YouTube
there's a very separate concept of
YouTube as being like what myspace used
to be as being a place where YouTube is
about you so if what you want to do is
try on a bikini and some people are
gonna watch that video because they're
sincerely interested in buying the
bikini and some people are gonna watch
it because they're sincerely interested
in look at your body
that's okay anything goes within the
stated rules it's really conceivable to
me that YouTube the adult YouTube could
split into two branches into two brands
into two websites one of which has much
much more strict censorship than what we
currently have and is aiming at the
market of being just as respectable as
broadcast television and we could say
more the highest standard of broadcast
television currently you can't do on
YouTube what you can do on HBO HBO is an
American television broadcaster they
have a lot of nudity they have a lot of
violence they have a lot of course
language I can't do any of that on
YouTube so actual broadcast television
already is way more permissive than
YouTube and that's the opposite of what
YouTube was initially designed to be but
if you split it that way you have the
respectable YouTube where everyone has
to wear a button-up shirt and meet
really strict standards of censorship
and then on the other youtube anyone can
wear a bikini guess what the
implications of that are guys anyone
anyone can wear a bikini and anyone can
watch that video with any set of
motivations you don't get to choose you
choose the content you upload you don't
choose your audience your audience
chooses you